Okay, so what is a CLI then?
Well like I said,
you've been using a CLI this whole time.
Basically, a CLI is just an app that runs
in your terminal that's basically it.
It's short for command line interface
because this is a command line and
this is how you the best way I can
think about a CLI always think about is
like it's it's you
chatting to your computer.
That's the best way I can describe it.
The only problem is you can't
do it in human language.
You can only do it with
like these commands, so
you have to know the commands and
those commands execute code.
Now some commands are built in like ls,
right?
mkdir, depending on what
platform you're on.
These commands are built in.
These are also CLIs other commands you
can make yourself or you can download.
Today we're gonna make our own CLI
that we can name whatever we want.
We'll be able to use it from here,
just like we can use ls, right?
That's basically what a CLI is.
So I listed some of the common ones you
might see like ls, rm to remove things,
cd to change command, mkdir,
different things like that.
But like I said,
we're gonna make our own custom one and
it's actually really not
that hard to make one.
So it just depends on how sophisticated it
is, but it's really not too complicated.
Also have some examples here of just like
how you can install some of those CLIs.
The thing to note here is that a CLI,
it doesn't matter what language you build
a CLI in any language that can run on
your computer, you can make a CLI in,
not just Node.js.
Like you can make one in Bash if
you want to and it doesn't matter.
You can so and also when you run that CLI,
it doesn't really matter what
language it was built in as long as
your operating system has that runtime,
that environment,
it can execute that CLI as well.
In fact, some of the CLIs you probably
have on your computer probably were not
even made with Node or JavaScript or
made with something else but
yet you still executing them.
So it's just a very, it's probably
the most flexible type of app that is out
there because it runs on operating system.
You can make it with any single language
and it has access to your home machine,
which means it can do anything.
So take that apply to some remote machine
in the cloud that's got like crazy amount
of compute GPUs, CPUs and
imagine being able to do anything.
It's a powerful application, it's more
than just making files and removing them.
You can do some pretty
crazy stuff with CLIs.
So that's basically what a CLI is.
It's a way to chat to your computer,
it's an app in your terminal.
Okay, well,
let's get started making our CLI and
yeah get the ball rolling with that.
So first thing we want to do is we
need to convert our folder that
we made here where we tested our
file into a Node.js project.
The best way to do that is using this
other CLI that you didn't know you had
called npm.
You didn't install npm,
it comes installed with Node.js.
If you install Node.js, which everyone
here did you should have npm.
So now you can run npm init,
which stands for initialize.
And it's just gonna give you this prompt.
It's gonna ask you some questions,
you can see it's actually
gonna type some stuff in here.
You can see what it says and
fill this out if you want or
you could just keep hitting
Enter until it goes away.
And it will go away you could avoid
all that if you do npm init --yes.
Which means say yes to everything.
So I don't have to do it and
it'll do the same thing.
So basically what's happening here and
then it'll give you this output.
This output is basically this.
It creates this new file called
a package.json and it puts all this in it.
Basically, when you put a package.json
in your folder, your project.
This allows you to take advantage
of everything that Node.js
has to offer as far as like modules,
scripts,
different things like that and
it's not specific to Node.js.
A lot of operating system languages
have their own configuration file.
In which you can configure things like
dependencies and stuff like that.
So this is just JavaScript or
Node.js version of that is a package.json.
So here we go we got a name,
we got a version, we got the main file.
Honestly, none of this stuff matters for
the most part unless you're creating a
package and once you deploy that you want
other people to be able to download and
you want to share that package.
Well, we're making an app not a package.
So we don't really care
about a lot of this stuff.
This really only matters for again,
I'm creating a package
that other people can use.
So we don't have to
really worry about that.
But you get this, this is what
you get when you do npm init.
All right, so now that we have that what
we want to do is in that index.js file
that you may or may not have,
just make sure you have it.
Just make sure you have a log in here.
I'm just gonna say,
hello world, like that.
And then now,
that's our program that's our CLI.
All it does is log we just
need to make it a CLI.
I want to be able to
come into my terminal and
type in some command and
be able to run that file basically.
So in order to do that, we need to
go back into our package.json and
we only got to add one field really,
this 'bin' field.
So if you go to your package.json and
on the top level this object,
if you just do bin, which is an object.
And then the first key is just the name of
the CLI that you want to make in this case
I'm gonna make a CLI called note.
And then I'm gonna point
it to that index.js file.
So what does this actually mean,
this is just whenever you create.
Actually, I'II just show
it's best if I show you.
So if type in which node you see
somewhere in this path there's
word called bin, right?
You think I've bin just like
this is where all your CLI live.
Every CLI that you make is gonna live in
a folder called bin in your computer.
Why is it called bin?
I don't know,
that's what its called it's bin.
So when we put that in our package.json,
this is us saying we want to create a new
entry in that bin folder called note and
here's the code to execute
when someone uses it.
So you probably want a globally
unique CLI name the worst thing you
wanna do is like make a CLI called git
because there is a CLI called git.
And I don't know which one gonna run,
which one they installed last I guess so
you gonna kinda think about it and
point to a file.
So now that we have that the next thing we
want to do is there is a couple of ways to
test this locally.
Obviously we could just run this file
like we did before with Node but
we want to run it with our note command or
whatever you call it yours you
don't have to call it note.
We could install this like
a package using npm but
I think the best way to do is just
do what's called a symlink so
in your terminal if you're in the path
to that repo you're on the route.
So you should see index,
you should see package.
You can just type an npm link.
Like okay, yeah see I do get the error
already have one that exists.
I need to overwrite mine.
I was gonna say force that link.
So what this is gonna do is
just going to take our CLI and
it's going to install it in that
bin folder inside of our computer.
So we're now able to use the note command.
I got the error when I ran
npm link because again,
I already did this on the finished
app that I have over here.
So it's like, hey, you already got
something called note it's already linked.
Basically what link is doing is creating
a symbolic link between our package here,
our file here with our
operating system file system.
So it's not actually like
installing it there but
it's creating like
a virtual reference to it.
So when it tries to read that program
they don't know the point of this file.
And the reason we're doing this
because it's just easier to develop.
If we did the other way around
where we installed it globally,
every change we made,
we have to reinstall it every single time.
Whereas now because it's a symlink,
it's always pointing to this.
So we just hit save and it's done we
don't have to keep reinstalling it.
So it's better to develop what
a symlink that it is installing it.
Cool, so now I should be able to type in
which note like this and I can see that.
Yeah, I do have something called note
installed on my computer somewhere because
I just did that's a symlink there.
So now I can just type in note and
hit Enter and
you should get this error, all right.
Everybody gets to this point
where they get this error?
Yeah why is that I know if I run this
code index.js like this it works so
I know the file it's good JavaScript.
I didn't write bad JavaScript,
I know it works I just ran it just now.
But for some reason when I
ran it with my note command,
it says, syntax error near unexpected.
That's not a syntax error,
that's just a console.
Okay, there's a really good reason for
this that's because we now installed
a bin tool which is a CLI.
Remember when I told you a CLI can
be made in any single language
in fact every language pretty
much you can make a CLI.
Okay, that's the problem our computer
doesn't know what runtime to
run this file.
Then it's like okay cool, you made
something but like is this Python?
Is this C-Sharp, what is this?
It doesn't know so
I actually don't know what environment
is trying to run it in right now.
Probably just bash, but
it's like, I don't get it.
It's not gonna look at the file name and
be like, yeah, this is JavaScript, cool.
Or it's not gonna like read your code and
interpreted as JavaScript and
figure it out.
You have to tell it and there's a way
to do that so let's figure that out.
You have to add something at the top of
your file which is called a hashbang.
And it's basically a comment that's
ignored from the interpreter but
it's meant for your operating system.
It's meant for your computer,
it's going to tell it what environment
this file should be ran in.
So in this case, we want to use this one
or is this like this #!/user/bin/env node.
So we have to add this to the top.
You can't have any thing before
it's not even a new line.
You can't do that you can see it
automatically breaks even when I do that.
Like it just it literally has to
be the first thing in the file.
Because it's not it's not
a traditional JavaScript comment.
We know JavaScript comments look
like this or they look like this.
So it's not a it's not
even a JavaScript comment.
It's something that only
the machine cares about.
The JavaScript interpreter
won't even see this.
So now that we have that,
we can hit Save, we can go back.
Now I can type in note.
I do get hello world because
it knows that it's JavaScript.
Yes.
>> So if we don't have Zsh installed or
are we gonna it looks like I don't
have that installed in mine.
>> Are you getting an error?
>> It says command not found.
>> So command not found means this
that means your link didn't work so
if you type in which
note what does it say?
>> Yeah, says note not found.
>> Exactly so
what you wanna make sure you do is
you wanna make sure you run npm link.
>> Okay.
>> To link that CLI to your computer.
>> Okay, then if I type in which note?
>> Then if you type in which note,
you should be able to see.
All right, just to show you,
if I change this
to node not note and
did that, it'll break.
Like no, just there's literally
no environment called node,
that this is not a real path.
All right, so it's reading this path and
it's using that execution to do that so
Cool, you just made your first CLI
[LAUGH] easy, that's how easy it was.